+++
title = 'I have long trembled with learned helplessness'
date = 2024-01-02T10:16:42-05:00
draft = false
comments = true
+++

After moving to Grove Street, I began learning dance at Nimbus Art Center and has discovered a great deal of enjoyment. In my first modern dance class, stretching with the teacher and swaying to the music, I felt an unparalleled relaxation. Although it was my first time in a modern dance class, I learned quickly and well, far from a beginner. I could keep up with the rhythm of the regulars around me and, from my own slightly biased perspective, I felt I danced even more gracefully and accurately.

I started to feel the freedom and joy of dancing last year, bouncing around at home, blasting Taylor’s albums, and moving my body without any particular technique. But dancing in a studio was a whole different experience. The notion that I was inherently uncoordinated and a terrible dancer, a verdict seemingly set in stone since childhood when my dad would discourage my awkward attempts, saying they were as graceless as a "giant camel," wasn't just hurtful but felt like a predefined label. I began to believe I was a dancing fool. Despite never having taken a dance class, and the performance opportunities at my school were exclusively reserved for the teacher's and leaders’ kids, dressed up and showcased, leaving me untried, untested, yet labeled clumsy.

Over the years, redefining my past through reading and acquiring psychology knowledge helped me understand what I had endured and identify the issues in my grow up. Every childhood act faced ridicule, not always with malicious intent but perhaps as part of my father’s parenting style. Every attempt at personal exploration during my development was met with humiliation and disparagement, inhibiting my growth, making me retract, become tense, cautious, afraid to show, learn, or allow myself to transform from incompetence to skill. Realizing this, I stood in the center of the dance studio, determined not to fear looking foolish, not to be overwhelmed by the inability to follow the steps, recognizing that my panic and cessation of learning were symptoms of "learned helplessness", not my true self. So, as the teacher led us through complicated sequences, I reminded myself not to give up or panic, focusing intently on her feet, moving with the rhythm, practicing steps alone while the class waited for the music change, unafraid of embarrassment. And I nailed it on the first try, growing more confident and joyful with each step, embracing every "beautiful" and "fabulous" compliments from the instructor as if meant for me, proving I wasn't the clumsy camel my father described. Even in midlife, the journey towards old age, to the day of death, is about resisting the internal scars and the shackles of learned helplessness, breaking free bit by bit, liberating myself slightly more, making my life a tad freer. Being handed a life full of holes and a shattered heart wasn't my fault, but it's my responsibility to mend myself.

Walking home after class, under the bright crescent of the new moon, my heart felt extraordinarily full. Passing the lightrail crossing, the lightrail driver waiting at the red light waved to me. I impulsively performed a bowing gesture taught by my dance teacher that night, stepping back with one foot, arm towards my "audience," lifting my right elbow to extend my forearm. Unconcerned with others' stares, I was utterly free and joyful in that moment. The driver showed me a huge smile, sounded the horn, and then the lightrail train slowly rolled out of the crossing.
