+++
title = 'Begin Again'
date = 2024-03-01T12:58:06-05:00
draft = false
comments = true
+++

For the past month or so, I have been intermittently working on building my personal website. Every time it seemed like success was within reach, it ultimately ended in failure. I’ve had to start over countless times, experiencing endless frustration, just like my life in general in January 2024, filled with downs and further downs. I once thought such simple code would be a piece of cake for me, since I am training LLM models and running all kinds of NLP programs, but reality has proven otherwise. Big failures bring big disappointments, and small failures bring even greater ones. I’ve been stuck in a loop with minor bugs, unable to find a way out. Life seems to run in parallel, feeling like I’m caught in a perpetual cycle, constantly struggling to find an escape. "Escape" is a poignant word; I told my psychiatrist about my continual thoughts of suicide, clarifying that I have no intention to act on them. She explained that it's not suicidal ideation but escape thoughts—I just want an out. This precise word brings me comfort.

Since moving back to Jersey City, my life has seemingly fallen into the same loop as in 2022, engaging with the same friend on WeChat in 2022 and 2024 (but not 2023), encountering the same misunderstandings and accusations for reasons unknown, living under the same postal code, and dealing with the same unwelcoming reception staff (I miss my old apartment and its friendly staff). I’m overwhelmed by the same sudden loss of all certainty and the looming thought of having to leave New York shortly. These big and small things simply overwhelm me, leaving me with no energy to deal with any of them. Escaping seems like the best option for me. I saw a woman my age, also with fancy advanced degrees and a job at MBB, who moved to Yunnan Province to embrace country life. Her story resonated with me, especially after I had seriously considered abandoning everything to move to Dali. I repeatedly listened to a podcast about a couple, both professors, who moved to Yunnan with their three cats and 7,000 books. It feels like the universe is nudging me to step off my current path and intentionally seek something for myself, beyond the prestigious professor title. Yet, the thought of taking such a drastic step frightens me. I used to consider myself brave and courageous, especially in making life decisions. Perhaps I am wrong.

Since moving back to Jersey City, January was especially cold, and it was even worse around the waterfront. I was taking a break from my overwhelmingly heavy work to walk along the Hudson River from my apartment. It was often too windy or cold, so most of the time, I wouldn't encounter anyone during my walks, except for a middle-aged Asian man who seemed to be homeless. No matter what time I went out or what the weather was like, whether in thick fog or under the bright sun, I would always see him, like a bundle of anger ready to explode. Over time, my fear gradually subsided, and I began not to avoid him from afar. I would hear him angrily shouting words like "constitution" or "justice." I even speculated that he might have been a political science or law school student in the past, resembling what a couple of my friends might look like if they went mad. This thought made me feel both amused and sad. How far apart were he and I, really? In the wicked winds of the waterfront, it was just a disheartened me encountering an angry version of myself every day. Then one day, he suddenly disappeared, and I never saw him again.
